How to rearchitect reality?  We want to understand:  who am I?  where did I come from?  why am I here?  These questions can be asked generally (every human) or specifically (me, myself, and I).

Mormon means "good love" or "God love".  What does that mean?   Love is the antithesis of NOT love, which we can call HATE.  Similarly, faith is the antithesis of NOT faith, which we can call FEAR.

But what does faith mean.  Most generally, it means God is on the throne.  But what exactly is the nature, character and meaning of God.

Attributed to a saying of Jesus (John):  "For this is life eternal, to know God.  And His Son."  What is to know?  To have knowledge about a thing (saber in Spanish)?  To have a personal relationship (conocer in Spanish)?  To have sexual relationships with a person (joder in Spanish)?  Now, in your traditional worldviews, you can swallow the first two meanings of know, but the third you find offensive and maybe even blasphemous.  Okay!  This is why I have to include it.  I have to push your boundaries of what you think you know as I push myself to consider ideas that are uncomfortable but internally consistent based on the meaning of a single word (in this case "know").  Intentionally removing obvious considerations "just because" is not objective or honest.  Therefore, I conclude that knowing God has something to do with observable attributes and relational connections (that may include, gulp, sex).

Next, the answer needs to be simple; so simple a child can understand it.  Jesus was also attributed to say that the kingdom of heaven is analagous to little children.  Although there may be several ways to interpret this saying, the simplest is the most obvious.  The knowledge of God is so simple a little child can understand it.  It is not convuluted and twisted (e.g., the etymology of the word FAKE as in FAKE NEWS).  Philosophers will articulate about the distinction between being childlike and childish spinning the narrative in a bazaar direction. 

As you reflect on what you know (or think you know) about God in the American-Judeo/Christian-Mormon frame, can you objectively say it is simple?  Very likely not!  Oliver Wendell Holmes, Sr. actually said at least one thing worth repeating:  "I would not give a [flying fig] for simplicity on this side of complexity, but I would give my life for simplicity on the other side of complexity."  So to arrive at simple truths, we first have to swim in the complexity to get there.

So create a definition of simple, what are the boundary conditions?  Simple is something you could explain to a child without a lot of further explanation.  Something fundamentally easy to comprehend and accept as true.  For example, the comparison of building a structure on sand or a rock foundation.  No matter where you were born, your socio-economic status, your religious upbringing, as a child you can comprehend this sand/rock teaching.  It is universal.  Not in some absolutist view of truth, but rather in a phenomonological lens.  No matter what perspective I review the thing, I arrive at a consistent conclusion.  This is not a popularity contest or a poll that constructs the truth, it is the observation from multiple lenses and seeing the common.  Each facet of perspective can be appreciated and honored in a quest to articulate the thing.

Let's examine a first primary question:  Who am I?  A child would answer something like "a human", "a child of parents", "similar/distinct" to other children with who the child has had experiences.  Some enlightened parents even teach the child the basics of biology on how the child was created.  A man's phallus enters a woman's well, plants a seed.  If the seed attaches successfully to the woman, a child will be created.  After growing in the well for time, the child will spring forth into the world as a baby.

Notice the basic description I provided has an agrarian narrative.  A child living in an agrarian world who has life experience planting a seed into the ground can understand most of this story.  Sometimes the seed grows, sometimes it does not.  So-called science has evolved in their details of this event, although it is as event as old as humanity.  During the time of Joseph Smith (recall Joseph had a bone surgery on his leg and spent many hours around doctors and their books), procreation was described the exchange of white fluids of the man and woman sometimes created a child.  The white smear of the woman ovulating and the male fluid (the concept of individual spermatozoon was known at this time).  I do not know if a doctor every taught this to Joseph, or if he ever read it in a book.  But during his lifetime, the concept of saying these white fluids were similar to "marrow" in the bones in composition was very common.  This puts a new perspective on some of Joseph's ideas about seed, marrow, and spirit running throughout our bodies - or that our power comes from our loins!

Now modern science takes this biology further, discussing 23 identifiable chromosomes, calling 22 of them autosomes, and the 23rd being a sex-determining chromosome.  They discard the "junk DNA" that they don't understand.  And then they say that the child is some "average" of the parents.  That is, 1 + 1 = 2/2 = 1.  A child gets half of its genetic material from daddy and half of its genetic material from mama.  And they think this is simple.  And how do they know?  Are they quantifying everything or only what they can measure?  Are there latent variables that are currently not being considered?  The reality is that it is unknowable if the entire genetic material of each parent is not shared with the child.  If it is latent, within our current frameworks, it is unmeasurable.  My point is this:  what they are trying to explain is not simple.  It is complex.  Mixing two white liquids is accurate and true.  Scientists are concluding based on the data they can observe that the result is an average.  

Now apply some of the other stories of extraordinary creations in human stories.  The Epic of Gilgamesh where the child is 1/3 human and 2/3 divine.  Another fraction, a weighted average!?!  An enlightened Christian could read the Father overpowering the Virgin with the Spirit as a similar threesome.  Maybe the Spirit represents the Mother who somehow does an in-vitro placement of Her fertilized egg into the human Virgin.  This is reasonable in our basic constructs, but does not address the concept of the Son being with the Father from the beginning or the concept of time.

Fractions are not simple as compared to addition.  Two human fluids mixing (or two divine fluids mixing with one human mortal's fluids) is a process a child can understand.  A simple activity would be to mix paint.  This is simple.  Fractional unzipping of DNA based on certain understand rules while ignoring the vastness of what is unknown and latent is very complex.

Now let's apply the addition property to intelligence of the child.  A child is the sum of the parents.  This inverts the experiential hierarchy.  If I_m and I_d represents the intelligence of mama and daddy respectively, what is the intelligence of the child?  Mathematically, can it be less than either parent?  No, it cannot.  You can argue for an average based on some theories, but that is not simple.  And never will be.  The child has the sum intelligence of the parents.  And if that is the case, the Son was always with the Father because the Son is the sum of all the intelligence of the Father, plus more.  BOOM!  Can you handle that concept?  The Son is more than the Father because the Son is the sum of the intelligence of the Father and the Mother (in the most basic pair-wise creation experience).  Does the primary song "I am a child of God" need to be reworked to account for this interstellar-like surprise with the father-child twist?

I invite you to read the explanation of this by Abraham in the Pearl of Great Price:  God speaks to Abraham and declares that He is more intelligent than them all, referring to all spirits!  In the narrative, God is being placed as equal in classification as a spirit, just more!  I immediately think God is saying "if you sum all other intelligence, I am greater than the sum", analagous to a power-law distribution of eigenvector network centrality!  If you know, you know.  God seems to identify two key factors of intelligence, noble and great.  Each spirit likely has a non-negative value on these two principal components, from which an eigenvector score can be computed.  Of course, the Book of Abraham has some significant scribal challenges.  Joseph Smith, being an unlearned man likely attempted to "beat the devil at his game" by utilizing the mummy-tour event to publish parts of original drafts of the Book of Lehi under the guise as being independent books of Abraham and Moses (under the guise of the JST).  After the pages were lost, there was likely a scramble to recreate the manuscript based on the fragments of drafts that remained.  Of course it was obvious that it would be impossible to recreate perfectly the exact same manuscript.  The scribal inner circle likely believed that would reduce the overall credibility of the contents.  This demonstrates their naivette and ignorance in relationship to understand how the translation process normally works.  How manuscripts naturally evolve.  How, for example, this specific document goes through versions naturally as I review it and make efforts to clarify the message and the details.  I would very much like to see the drafts and the original manuscript as there may be changes in the Abraham ranking mechanism.  I proceed with what I have knowing there may need to be tweaks to my worldview if the data every does resurface.  Likely it will not surface, as the unlearned Joseph Smith seemed to like to burn parchment that may damage his reputation and lead people on "strange roads."

Oh no!  I am doing it again.  I am saying Joseph Smith was a prophet, but also not omniscient and perfect.  I am not deifying him.  I am not saying he was infallible.  I am looking at the evidence in context of the larger system and remembering that he was self-reported to be "unlearned."  Such objectivity is the distinction between apologetics and scholarship.

So let us return to the facts.  Joseph Smith introduced some ideas that could be summarized generically as "sexual innovations."  Consider Nancy Ridgon, Fanny Alger, and John C. Bennett.  Comparing and contrasting the varying interpretations can lead to contention, but the fact remains that Joseph Smith introduced "sexual innovations" that later was cannonized as "plural marriage".  Did Yeshua teach similarly "sexual innovations"?  Do we have any evidence of Ancient America teaching such things?  Did the teachings change after Yeshua visited America?

Makes you ponder.  Now, can we extend this basic 1-1 mapping of creation to other life?  Trees and pollen (bees as a mediator).  Fish (water as a mediator).  Birds.  There is a many-to-many possibility of relationships, but in our discrete understanding it is a 1-1 matching from a pool of many-to-many.  So a pattern emerges.  1-1 from 1-1; 1-1 from many-to-many; ... What would be the next element of the pattern?  Is it being more expansive or contractive?  Would it be possible to have a 3-3 relationship or a 3-8 relationship?  

Now if I have three models of creation, which would be telestial, terrestial, and celestial?  Joseph as an unlearned man was clearly trying to teach some sexual innovations that got canonized and normalized based on the norms of  society into a palatable (and somewhat legal) form:  plural marriage.  The mathematics may make you squeamish based on your worldviews.  But the logic is undeniable.  Certainly, there needs to be internal consistency within a single paradigm.  Are there hints of sexual innovations (described in Ancient Egypt as the double pleasure) in the Old Testament, New Testament, Ancient America that would validate Joseph Smith's insights?  And what of other paradigms?  Buddhism, Confucianism, Hinduism?  Have you heard of the tree-like sexual rituals in the forests along the Gangan river?  Or the concept of equal flow and connection (the yin-yang) between a male/female based on the phallus/well AND the umbilical cords of chakra centers?  Have you studied the oddities of the female-dominant hyena?  The sea horse?  Why do most mammals have a bone-in phallus?  There are plenty of breadcrumbs and clues, if only you are willing to explore them in a sincere effort to discover truth.  As you step into the darkness and illuminate it with your light, you will change.  Seemingly paradoxical, you will be more.  You will be empowered with more light.

Now certainly, some of my insights have come from study, but a few of these elements have been revealed in what I would define as "flash revelations"; that is, glimpses of something that I have to revisit many times and try to make sense of.  And as my worldviews update, I recognize that the "flash visions" may have a different meaning than I originally understood because the vision was anchored to my frame of reference when it occured.  Maybe as Joseph Smith learned more, his understanding of his visitations of angels evolved.  Or maybe the institution that surrounded his innovations encouraged his visions to evolve.  Either reality is very plausible, possibly a mixture of the two.  

So if I claim I personally have received "flash revelations", why is it that an angel did not appear to me and perfectly articulate the truths of all things like Nephi describes for example.  Well, I am not Nephi.  I was not designated to create a civilization.  Many details Nephi's vision not specifically articulated but likely observed possibly encouraged and motivated Nephi to continue to "go and do" new things.  To remind Nephi, that with God all things are possible (Isaiah:  My Father called me, I entered the Throne room, He sent me on a journey, I will succceed.).  Nephi was clearly a doer, working with his hands, an artisan (ari-ti-sa) and likely a limbic learner.  That was his life mission.

I am a different learner with a different life purpose.  Maybe summarized as #TruthFromDarkness, my capabilities are to examine flaws and inconsistencies in logic and develop/design minimal viable solutions.  I am an intellectual, hopefully a true scholar.  So if the heavens offer "the answer is 5", I would reply, "okay, cool, thanks.  Let me work out how/why".  That is, I believe I have received the basic answer (or structure thereof), and with the clues left behind, I want to work out the solution for myself.  Not much more than a system of equations with lots of variables.   In my estimation, when offered a visitation and explanation, I declined with the language of "I am not ready.  I want to be more prepared."  Those were my internal thoughts when the moment presented itself.  Now, after much reflection, I can see that I wanted to be more like Abraham and less like Moses when the visit occurred.  Is that arrogance or hubris, or is that a function of who I am and my personal relationship with God?

And why would the heavens oblige?  I can think of two scenarios that lead to the same outcome.  Suppose for a moment that I am a level 9 spiritual being (on the Abraham index of rank order).  Now, suppose a messenger from heaven (angel) decides to communicate with me.  If the angel is level 6, and I say "hey, I want to figure out this on my own!" would it not make sense for the angel to relent knowing that I have more intelligence although it may be shrowded or limited in this current mortal encarnation.  Now imagine the angel is level 12 or level 99.  Mathematically, the angel is more than me.  Has more mixture.  But that also means the angel has "all of my intelligence" so would have a perfect knowledge of my intellectual capacities, empathetic and emotional capabilities, and an inventory of my primary drivers of motivation.  In this case, the wisdom of the superior being would lead to the same outcome.  So whether the angel has more/less light than me, I will be obliged.  This can be summarized in a simple teaching attributed to Yeshua:  if a child asks for bread, will you give him a stone ... Reassessing the possible mixture conclusion that the child is more than the parent, this brings even greater clarity to the maxim.

As we start with such a simple explanation a child can understand, under the hood is fractal complexities that are beautiful for the open-minded and frightening for those suffering from cognitive dissonance.

The complexity of gender becomes simple.  So simple, a child could understand.  The notion of a son, a father and a father's father (grandfather).  This is enough to understand how male mixture occurs, the full pattern of the eternities is understood by examining the three.  But the mothers of living trees are the essence of existence.  The male is only the seed, the female is the fruit and the tree.  Obviously, the inequality is apparent, seemingly opposite to the cabal systems.  Should not be surprising.  So the male can be represented by the upward triangle representing the phallus (erect due to the female attraction).  And the female can be represented by the downward triangle representing the well that can receive seed and grow fruit.  Obviously, the trinity of female can be represented by daughter, mother, and mother's mother (grandmother).  The seal of solomon, a six-pointed star demonstrating the basic fractal of relationships.  Maybe the son/daughter are the north/south, the father/mother are east (birth), and the grand father/mother are west (setting).  I once had an spiritual impression about the trinity of the masculine (as a man, I assume it is not my place to mansplain the female half of the trinity).  The vision was in February 2020, about 4 years ago.  So it was likely partially flawed based on my worldviews at that time.  The overall impression I had was that I was the "applied mathematician", that my father was the "wrote-expert basic mathematician" and my grandfather was the "architect mathematician" [Ari-Kat!].  As my logic systems have updated, the elements of the masculine trinity is consistent, I now just believe (based on all of the programming within our worldview constructs), that I had just inverted the order of the son-father-grandfather; it should have been grandfather, father, son.  That is, the son is a mixture of all before so is the master architect.  We Can Be Heroes (2020) is a cheesy movie with this simple conclusion.

So in the Christian tradition, the concept of the Trinity is embedded without any direct scriptural foundation.  In the Hindi tradition, the trinity of male-female pairs (six in total) is readily understood.  The Spirit (ruach) can be any of these six members as they wish to express themselves. 

The next element of the simple story leads to two additional polymorphisms.  Two parents have one child that is a mixture of the two parents.  Are there only two parents?  Or are there more?  Human observation with just the external skin color would inform a child that some children have black skin, some have brown skin, and some have white skin.  No judgment of good/bad, children do not operate that way.  But they can discern differences in outward appearances.  Does that not imply multiple parents and multiple seedings of children on this earth?  Of course it does!  But for a monotheistic, monogenesis framework, this is very difficult to accept.  But what is the alternative?  There are hundreds if not thousands of unique creation stories on this earth.  To imply that your worldview is correct you are indirectly calling all of the others liars.  That's not nice!  That is the foundation of polemics.  Bad for advancing knowledge.  In fact, it stifles and hinders advancement.  Ask Talmage how that worked out for him.  Or ask McConkie/Dobson how that benefited Christianity in general in America.

So if you were to synthesize creation stories there are several common themes.  Trees, gardens, fresh water.  An idealic beginning.  Sometimes an introduction of chaos (killing a brother) are tied to the creation stories.  So how does the complexity simplify into a consistent story that can be basically justified across all worldviews.  To do so, there needs to be a recognition of the importance of the trees as it relates to the creation of a human family.  When a baby comes out of a woman, how are they connected?  The umbilical cord represents a branch of a tree.  A tree represents the genealogy of women.  Proverbs and Nephi's tree articulation talking about the most beautiful woman and the condescension of God!  A man leaving his tree (his mother/father) and cleaving unto his woman and her tree.  Different flavors of trees.  Firs, Pomegranates.  Oaks of Bashan, Cedars of Lebanon.  

So that is the complexity, how does it distill into simplicity.  Well, maybe look at your hands.  Use it as a teaching tool.  Start there.  The Most High God ... invited His friends to establish a garden on this earth.  He invited 10 friends, the most loyal and most beloved (left hand, thumb) to be the first.  To lay the foundations for others to come.  To prepare the garden for a party.  

Now is the Most High above all others in this universe?  Is the best friend the Most High in another universe?  In another iteration of this universe?  In a multiverse?  Maybe.  My personal constructs would not be threatened by such possibilities.  Moses clearly only wanted to understand the ongoings of this world; Abraham was interested in the entire cosmos as he was able to understand.  Moses received information on the Battle for Middle Earth whereas Abraham was given some details about the War in Heaven and the relationship with the Battle for Middle Earth in the larger context.  I am interested in the next level of abstraction, as outlined with other possibilities I consider.  I do not see myself ready to understand such advanced things if I do not even understand the Moses or Abraham constructs.  Line upon line indeed!

Again, the Most High invites 10 friends to a garden.  Each of the 10 friends could also invite 10 friends, and so on.  The fifth/tenth friend (pinkie, left/right hand) is likely where the Most High God decided to plant His vineyard (see Isaiah 5), placing His vine among trees and forests - seemingly a less-developed genealogy with a distinct potential and purpose.  The Most High can most effectively influence and help the least.  That is what a servant leader would do - partner with the weakest player to enhance the partner's capabilities.  Maybe the best friend, the first was Melchisedec.  The King of Righteousness, the one was strong spiritual powers tied to the heart.  Maybe Egypt!  Maybe Africa consisted of three primary friends.  Noted by a large fresh-water river and highlands (mountains).  Rules for the garden were established with boundaries of each forest (family of trees) to live and prosper in their region of the garden.  Peace and harmony.  No fighting or wars.  This was the plan.  But others crashed the party, embuing chaos and trying to shift the lands of peace into lands of enmity and competition.  Instead of abundance, scarcity.  All to disrupt the peace and serenity of the garden.  

Primary peoples have a fresh river as their homeland with mountain highlands.  Egypt (Nile), Heart of Africa (Niger), Southern (Congo), North/South America (Mississippi/Amazon, old nation).  To the right, mountains seem more defining than rivers, Europa (Mont Blanc-Rhone), Central Asia (Ariel Mountains-Yrtish), Levant (Midian-River? / Mount Hermon-Dead Sea? ... likely the tenth invitee where chaos erupted), India (Himalayas-Ganga), China (Wangxia-Yangtze).  The missing obvious fresh-water river is in the Levant, but with the Dead Sea (not fresh water) and the stories of Mount Herman (Fallen Watchers), maybe this is why.

My current understanding would be tied to the autonomy of the ten invitees (Egypt and the nine bows) to procreate and develop their own trees within their borders until a unification was declared and pollinations across borders would occur.  Certainly, none of this happened as someone (or a group with one leader or several groups with several leaders) crashed the party, created chaos, forcibly pollinated the ten forests and subforests, introduced war and power structures that motivated border crossings.  

Maybe chaos was introduced by one entity, or maybe multiple characters conflated into one archetype.  From a Judeo/Christian-Mormon perspective, we have several aspects of this chaos introduction:  (1) Lucifer [or Luciferage], the fallen angel of light (driven by ego, self-importance, and hubris); (2) Satan (generically meaning adversary); (3) Fallen Watchers who entered into oaths binding all into mutually assured destruction; (4) Secret Oaths tied to an initiation of murder [Master Mahan]; (5) diabolicals (demons, devils, seemingly lesser powers than the leaders possibly subservient or enslaved by stronger leaders).  So is this all wrapped into one ideator, a single-distinct entity that developed the chaotic organization and its activities?  

How can a child of light lead the darkness?  If light cleaveth unto light, how can light become NOT light?  I find this to be logically inconsistent and have not, as of yet, been able to reconcile the foundational maxims about light/darkness in this regard.  Brigham loved talking about "outer darkness where fallen children of light would be unmade".  This seems so incongruent to a God of light being tied to eternal destruction.  One is additive, the other is subtractive.  Addition represents the potter who takes clay and adds to it to create the human mortal (Egyptian God Khnum).  Subtraction represents the one who takes stone and carves elements away from it (Egyptian God Amun).  My estimation is that a God of light is an "addition operator".  I cannot reconcile the concept of light creating evil or darkness.  Isaiah 45:7 has very different meanings between the Masoretic philosophies and the earlier Septuagint message:  "I am God and am always light; I created an opportunity for you to exist here where you bring your own light."  This I can comprehend.  If God is level 99 and I am level 9, His light is brighter.    

People that love negation (the NOT operator, which does not seem to align with the nature of God), would negate this distinction of brightness and call it darkness.  Let there be light, Lucifer as the light-bearer (and son of the morning), God's glory is light and truth.  All references are positive and additive.  The concept of creation in this updated paradigm is also substantially different.  A universe and a mortal experience was created, but as spirit having a first estate, are we not eternal (gnolaum as understood by Joseph Smith)?  Did God create evil?  Or did God create a universe with rules that enabled evil to manifest itself (in that day in the garden I gave unto man agency [self-autonomy] - God would cease to be God if our autonomy was taken?)?  If so, evil may be the misunderstanding or disconnect between two levels of light.  

At some point, God has promised me more light, but only as much as I am able to receive.  Maybe this is an after-earth event.  Maybe it is the discovery events of mortality as described in D&C 123.  Maybe these are two of many ways to gain more light.

To find simplicity on the other side of complexity, it is imperative one is without fear to swim in the deep waters.  Maybe even mirky waters.  And maybe you could lose your way.  Maybe.  If however, you believe you carry light within you which cannot be taken from you (you live with an eye of faith without fear), then what is to worry.  Knowledge may be like a confluence of rivers.  One river may be pristine, the other mirky.  Flood plains and deltas may appear.  Regardless, the confluence means more volume.  The impurities eventually will be removed and what is left is a larger quantity.

So to arrive at a better construct of reality, you have to get muddy.  You have to try on uncomfortable possibilities.  These are hazards of the task, but the task itself is rather mundane:  you have to triangulate information from multiple sources to gain a more accurate understanding of what you are seeing exactly.  BH Roberts was correct.  With the flood of information available to the world in the modern computer/internet era, one can begin to make connections between the different narratives and traditions, coupled with the advancement of "science" to demonstrate the veracity of the Book of Mormon.  Not that the translation was perfect; in fact, it will demonstrate more of the Oliver "sneakiness."  Soon, it will be obvious to many that the stories of the Ancient American record are real.  That is exciting.  And I, like BH, believe the intent is bigger than to justify a certain religious organization.  The polemic arguments of his peer Talmage need to be put out to pasture.  "Na na na ... I am right, you are wrong.  I told you so" is so childish!  

The record of Ancient America should be treated as a Rosetta stone, a keystone to unlock more accurately the academic attempts to translate Egyptian and Mayan.  Why?  Well, if we review the promises outlined (or the curse that hinders these promises [Ezra Taft]), at some point more records will come forth.  Which in my pragmatic estimation means they will need to be translated, but this time by learned me without hands from heaven to give the answer.  How can we use the Eyptologist modern framework of the ancient Egyptian language to translate records from "Lehi" if the letter "l" does not even exist in their construct?!?

If we want to understand how Zion was built, we need to study the society Nephi built in which they "lived after a manner of happiness".  This requires an iteration between internal/external geographies.  If you can expand your thinking, the end of times requires a temple of Jehovah to be destroyed.  Many think it means the atrocity Herod built.  The temple Solomon builded was accepted by God symbolized by a pillar of fire.  Was the Herod temple ever accepted in a similar manner?  Obviously, not.  And if you careful read the words we still have attributed to Yeshua, the "why" is obvious.

Yet what of the temple of Jehovah that builded Nephi?  Where is it?  Was it accepted by God?  Again, I would posit that yes, as Nephi said it was like the temple Solomon builded.  For whatever reasons, Judeo/Christian-Mormon have some bazaar ideas about the construction and materials used in the temple Solomon builded, so they cannot comprehend what a restored temple for end times should look like.  

Most importantly, the temple was to house the Ark of the Covenant.  Which mysteriously disappeared before Jerusalem was sacked right after Nephi visits the treasury to recover certain valuables from it.  And then read Isaiah carefully, and the other prophetic writings that say "do not worry about the Ark, I took care of it, you will not see it in the Levant again."  Such data points should make you rethink the modern Mormon tradition that the breastplate and Urim/Thummin were a different set.  Those with eyes to see, let them see.  Those with ears to hear, let them hear!  Identifying the location of the temple Nephi builded would enable a cascade:  where was it, what is the building technique, should it be rebuilt?  

Part of me thinks that maybe the institution of the Mormon Church already has the Ark and other data points, but like the seer stone of Joseph's, it will magically appear when they deem the time to be opportune with some flimsy PR story about it get lost in a safe or something.  This is a standard playbook from mediocre managers in a hierarchical institution.  But that is highly unlikely as much of organizational longevity is defined by a "comedy of errors" of its leadership.

The Judeo tradition has a plethora of beliefs integrated into our society.  How the temple in Jerusalem needs to be restored, a red heifer without blemish needs to be sacrificed.  And this seems to align with the prophecy of Joseph that stated the Levites need to offer a sacrifice again in righteousness.   The hostility within the Abrahamic religions is a function of land territory and ownership.  His promised land was approximately from the Nile (west) to the Euphrates (east), from Damascus (north) to the sea (south).  This could be defined generally as the Arabian peninsula.  The land was a gift to Abraham only because the Canaanites would follow the rules of the garden party.  Nephi teaches us this.  The firstborn issued from the seed of Abraham was named Ishmael, no matter how Judeo/Christian philosophers want to spin stories of justification.  The second born was Isaac.  And Abraham had six sons later in life:  the Midians.  Basic math informs us that Abraham had eight sons.  

God in His wisdom and mercy prepared a way for Mulek and Nephi to travel north/south respectively to a new land as foretold by Isaiah.  Mulek was a descendant of Judah.  Nephi was a descendant of Joseph.  Both groups likely brought kohen with them (Levites).  And they have amazing adventures.  And they were a remnant of the Jacob line that was not involved in the death of the Messiah.  Pretty awesome!  We have a group of the house of Israel that escaped the Levant and therefore are not cursed in relationahip to the death of the Messiah. Now imagine how interesting the stories will be when we learn of the adventures of the other ten tribes.  

To understand the importance of the Levant, you explain the story like a game of capture the flag.  The most choice land on earth was saved for the most choice young vine (America [pinkie, left hand], according to Joseph Smith).  Now, if things go sideways, as it seems they did, you will need to go to where the rebellion initiated and put out the fire (the Levant [pinkie, right hand]).  Before doing so, you will give friends an option to evacuate to protect their families or to stay and play the updated version of chaotic earth.  Enoch evacuated those that left, Noah prepared a ship in American for that nation that wanted to stay (Noah was leaving home base to go to the Levant.  Capture the flag!)  Many cultures speak of the flood and its devastation.  And many cultures talk about building boats or going to high mountains where a few, "the eight", of their family members who chose to stay survived.  And it seems, in the land of Canaan, a few of children of the uninvited Fallen remained (the Raphaim).  So if Noah is going on the offensive to capture the enemy flag, what are the Jaredites doing?  Building ships to defend the choice homeland.  With his "eight", the brother of Jared builds a society in the promised land of America.  Three actions:  Enoch evacuates those who do not want to play the game any longer, Noah goes on the offensive, and Mohonri goes on the defensive.  Simple.  Simultaneous.  Now was this operation multiplied by each family?  Since the Most High invited His ten best friends, I am certain He offered to help them, or allow them to help themselves.  So maybe Enoch gathered many families from the entire earth.  Or maybe he just gathered those in America.  Regardless, the chaos has changed the nature of earth.  Contigency Charlie Foxtrot was executed! There cannot be peace again until first there is the sword.  The honorable will defend the innocent; the NOT honorable will oppress and exploit the innocent. 

Nephi taught us how to be honorable.  And Yeshua, when visiting America after His death and resurrection made this very clear in his American version of the Lord's Prayer as attributed in 3 Nephi.  This is extremely important because it would have been obvious to any of the scribes, yet Joseph was allowed to make this obvious alteration and based on the worldviews of the scribes, given the new information with the records of Ancient America, let this data point through their filters.  So we read in 3 Nephi an indirect homage to the founder Nephi by Yeshua.  God's kingdom of heaven on earth (Zion) is here, thanks to the foundations established by Nephi.  Yeshua is amazed by the faith of the people of Nephi which creates a strong constrast to the people of the Levant.  And And Yeshua articulates agreement with Nephi's conclusion that "Great are the words of Isaiah."

This is a valuable data point.  But it is not the keystone data point that will begin to decompose the current Judeo/Christian-Mormon foundations.  The key data point was 3 days of darkness.  Certainly the scribes knew the New Testament only spoke of 3 hours of darkness followed by 3 days in the tomb and the resurrection.  The scribes also allowed this data point to make it past their filters.  And this data point is the thread that will unravel the twistings of the FAKE NEWS proferred by the Romans and Jews who were contemporary to Yeshua [etymology of FAKE].  Before proceeding, however, I need to clarify that other filters may remain.  What is an hour?  Is it 60 minutes or a fraction of daylight which is a function of the location and time of year?  And why so many 3s?  If Joseph were to have said 5 hours and 5 days, how would the scribes have responded?  So they allowed something incongruent through, but other things maybe were still filtered.  The human nature of scribes revealing a key unspoken aspect of the translation process.  For me personally, the number 33 was the key data point that unlocked this proposed scribal filter.  I triangulated other data from the boundary conditions that Samuel the Lamanite offered and the historicity of Herod and his death.  And I merged that data with Chinese astrological records of "many signs in heaven" including a super nova, multiple comets, and a solar eclipse.  My current construct is that Yeshua was born on 5 April 8 BC (the year of the Water Ox) and died on 5 May 31 AD (NASA would say the solar eclipse was 10 May 31 AD, and the mapping of the Chinese calendars to modern calendars may reconcile this difference - but, if I were to take a prediction model over a historically recorded event, I would certain side with China over NASA).  The incongruency in my logical construct was the years of 3 Nephi.  But was that the original text, or an edit imposed by Oliver?  Did Oliver have the Christian-numerology fixation on the number 33?  Again, the stars and archaelogy has less possibility of bias from personal philosophies.  Now, review the handwritten manuscripts that Royal Skousen has so carefully curated.  Are there any evidences "mistakes" were made anywhere in 3 Nephi with the ordering of years after the new calendar system was created?  You will find a few.  Certainly you can rationalize alternative explanations, but this is how triangulation works.  The data that is most reliable is given the most weight.  The suspect data is given a margin of error to account for potential systematic biases.  An apologist would not utilize such a weighting methodology.  A scholar would!

I often try to imagine how the scribal sphere of Joseph's time would discuss such data points.  I imagine the Whitmer men (including Oliver and Hiram, married into the family) discussing the implications of "X hours of storm and Y days of darkness" after the messiah death event.  Was Joseph leading the discussion, or listening and learning?  Of course, the mother of the household was actually doing more than philosophizing about such things.  She was out milking the cow, taking care of the household and her guests.  She was the real hero in the story and was rightfully rewarded with a first view of the small plates from the resurrected saint (called an angel using the Joseph Smith vernacular) named Nephi, the founder of Ancient Zion.  She called him Brother Nephi whenever she reflected on this story.  She was the first witness of the small plates, the legend of Nephi.  However, she was not a formal member of the eight witnesses.  Yet 8 is much greater than 3.  Lots to unpack there, if you choose to do so.  

Likely at the fall equinox a few years prior when Joseph was introduced to the "angel" Moroni, Nephi and Mohonri also visited.  Or maybe Ether, the keeper of the records, not Mohonri.  The first accounts of this vision does refer to Nephi, but the PR department of the institution made that story disappear.  One person giving the same message 3 or 4 times is not the same as 3 or 4 persons giving similar messages independently.  One is repetitive and NOT exciting.  The other represents independent witnesses.  Not repetitive and exciting.

The key to unraveling the FAKE NEWS regarding the life and death of the messiah is anchored to what has been rendered as 3 days of darkness.  The New Testament says 3 hours.  The Ancient American records seems to say 3 hours of continuous destruction and 3 days of darkness.  There is some ambiguity which could be a scribal-filter problem or merely a clarity of the original account.  For example, if a major earthquake occurred during the 3 hours, it is very plausible that during the 3 days, aftershocks would have been noticed.  Similarly, a volcano will have an initial eruption yet the dispersion of ash and volcanic flows may last for days.

The Romans commission a man named Josephus to write a history outlining what occurred during this era.  To write "history" anchored to the CABAL, you have to take elements of history that are known and then craft it to meet your needs.  I am certain there was discussion on whether to include Jesus in passing, or exclude him altogether.  Or maybe introduce multiple potential Messiahs, mention a passive one and an agressive one (Jesus the Egyptian).  You would take historical events and contort them.  Why?  Well, if there was significant destruction in the Levant and Roman Empire that would make everyone keenly aware Mother Earth is not happy with what just happened.

To create a history, you have to use language available to you.   For example, in Central Asia anciently, the apple was possibly a common fruit.  But in Ancient Egypt, you would likely not have a word for apple in the language, but would have the word pomegranate (likely because you imported it from ancient India on the Irreantum sea routes).  It is important you do not get confused.  In our language the "pome" in the fruit's name refers to an apple, but that is not the original meaning in the original language.  That demonstrates the the creator of the word "pomegranate" had "pome" (or "alma") predetermined as a word for apple, which implies the given civilization distinguished the pomegranate from a fruit already known, the apple.  So in one language, the pomegranate would mean "apple with seeds".  Very bazaar and nonsensical if you unpack such a meaning.  Regardless, we will return to the pomegranante later as it was used extensively in the construction of the temple Solomon builded and in the decorations of both the temple and the kohen.

So if you are going to create FAKE NEWS, principle 101 is that you use language containing true events and then you distort the order or implant a narrative.  The language that generates the FAKE narrative will likely condemn you and demonstrate your personal projections in your erroneous insertion.  So let's return to the James/Ruthven story.  The James narrative described how he showed up unannounced for lunch and chatted with the Ruthven brothers privately while the food was being prepared.  Then, for no apparent reason, the brothers got hostile, so James ran to the window and shouted "help, they are trying to kill me."  So his friends, members of the hunting party ran up the stairs of the tower and killed the brothers with swords.  It was clearly self defense!  Oh, and there was something about Catholics and potential gold.  Yeah!  Alexander visited me earlier in the morning telling me to stop by so he could give me the gold.  He had a bag of gold and a Catholic captured in the tower at Ruthven.  Alexander deceived me.  It was a trap!

Now you can choose to believe the James narrative.  That is your perogative.  But generally, the language and words are tools of discernment to understand the motives of James.  Throw the words in a bag and shake them up.  What words do you see:  gold, Catholic, trap, deceived (deception), swords, kill.  This is the semantic map that describes the character of James.  "He loves gold and will kill and deceive and use religion to get it."  

So later, a deep dive into the language of Josephus will be analyzed, but for now:  the Ancient American record outlines both X hours of destruction/darkness followed by Y days of darkness.  Now, if this also occurred in the Levant, and those responsible for angering Mother Earth understand it was a result of their actions, what would they do?  Is it human nature for institutional structures to admit error, apologize, and face the consequences of their poor decisions?  Now imagine that one institution was the elite class of a larger government institution.  Are the two institutions going to announce "Our bad, we killed the Son of God and the destruction and economic downturn is our responsibility.  We will take full responsibility, review Yeshua's teachings and implement them in changing how government and religion functions, not only in the Levant but throughtout the entire Roman Empire.":  

So if the Romans and Jews understood why a multi-day destruction occurred, they would cover it up and fabricated a history (from true historical elements).  And the easiest thing to manipulate in histories are the timelines.  Yet archaelogy does not lie.  So the archaelogical record tells us that 31 AD there was an earthquake of 6.5 magnitude with the Dead Sea as an Epicenter.  Plus or Minus 5 years.  The best dating methods are volcanic or core samples, as carbon dating and other isotopic dating methods are theoretically convenenient but have significant calibration issues based on assumptions of uniform unchanging isotopes.  So we have an earthquake, right when the Messiah may have died.  Did Josephus mention this in his history?  Odd thing to exclude.  Well he was writing it sixty years later.  Why was he writing it 60 years later?  Why not one year later, or 10 years later?  Was there some devastating events that disrupted life in the region?  In the Roman Empire?  Do we have any annual data on economics and trade that would demonstrate such a downturn?  An instrumental variable would be useful to filter through the propoganda narrative of FAKE NEWS.  So now let's discuss volcanic activity.  In America, the Three Sisters in Oregon erupted in the potential window: 100 AD plus or minus 100 years.  Mount Vesuvius erupted destroying Pompeii (not to be confused with Pompei) in that same timeframe.  But no, let's rely on first-hand, I mean second-hand accounts of the events.  Pliny the Younger wrote about it.  His uncle died there that day.  Pliny the Elder would align with a timeframe of 31 AD and a Pompeii destruction, but if we write letters later (e.g., the Younger, we can shift the timeline and conclude a precise date).  O, let's also get modern coin experts to examine the coins of that era and arrive at an overly precise conclusion of October 79 AD.  An opposite season and a different year.  Now if that timeline was manipulated, what else happened supposedly around 70 AD.  Can you see?  The string of FAKE NEWS unravels if you begin with an ounce of faith that there was GLOBAL darkeness for a period of days.  My studies would conclude that there were 5 days of darkness.  Again, intuition and inference from an seemingly uninterested party.  The Chinese Emperor (Guangwu of Han) saw a solar eclipse with its epicenter over the sea of Japan.  He announced that a righteous man has died to restore order from the chaos in this world [to fulfill the promise of QingMing], and he did not leave his palace for 5 days.  Now 5 days is a pentad, half of a decan, and likely the basis of what we call "weeks" in the four-pillar Chinese solar calendar.  The Chinese history as summarized by traditional Christians does not explicity mention multiple days of darkness.  The originally record may.  Time will tell.

So now imagine:  a large earthquake occurs at the moment of Yeshua's death.  There is a solar eclipse in the sky followed by storms.  Mount Vesuvius erupts destroying many immediately (two days of eruption).  Now this is starting to sound like the destruction in 3 Nephi!  And the curiosity of later Romans reinforce this likelihood:  Caligula/Nero visits the location of Pompeii (but somehow thereafter it is forgotten for hundreds of years at a time!), some bazaar implementation of the agape meal as they understood it.

Now apply FNAF.  "As a TBM, I can see how that history could have been fabricated, but let me off the train.  I will choose to fail to continue the abstraction."  If this was FAKE NEWS, clearly much of the death event itself was also FAKE NEWS.  They curated certain records, burned other records.  Promoted certain views that would enable Christianity to co-exist in a Roman frame (Pontius Pilate did not kill the Messiah, he washed his hands.  The Messiah taught you to be good vassals and pay your taxes to Caesar.).  So if you get on the train, you have to visit every car and your destination will likely be significantly altered.  The Death Event itself will, in turn, lead to the Life Events.

So the classic Judeo/Christian-Mormon explanation for the destruction of Pompeii would be anchored to sexual immorality and fornication.  I have seen a Pompeii exhibit once at the Boston Museum [and had an interesting/awkward sexuality talk with a LDS girl who was as naive as I was to the domain being good Mormon virgins].  Some of the materials can be easily labeled as the etymology of the word "pornography."  So we keep our current world views, and only make one adjustment.  We continue with the same world view of Sodom and Gomorrah.  The wickedness was about sex.  Not about exploiting the poor generally, or human trafficking women into the sex trade as likely was the case in Pompeii.  The abomination, in my estimation was removing free will from humanity.  Forcing a human to do something against their agency and will.  To use power to oppress.

Why would I emphasize such a distinction?  Obviously, because Joseph Smith was introducing sexual innovations, so I have to reconsider my constructs and hangups on sexuality.  I have to again seek different perspectives to help me arrive at a healthier construct of reality.  Sex in Ancient Egypt is defined as "double pleasure" and through the Victorian age, a certain degree of taboo was associated with the shame of the "pudenda".  When scholars examine the myth of Victorianism arguing it was a vehicle of propoganda (Michel Foucault), it is difficult for those engrained in their doctrines (Spencer W. Kimball) to accept.  The Song of Solomon is not inspired text!  Fact, because I am uncomfortable with it.  In fact, those that vigorously oppose such natural notions write holier-than-thou treatises that have prevented many from considering the upsides of the Mormon religious institution.

The Chinese describe the three forms of female sexuality.  The first form is the child-prostitute - an individual forced into the sex trade, having a pimp or other person earning money from the sexual engagement.  Likely, this was the great sin of Pompeii.  The second form is most common, the wife-prostitute where a wife exchanges her body for a house and food and protection codified on a long-term contract.  The third form, considered the most honorable in Chinese tradition is called the "green/blue eyed mansion" - she is intelligent, independent, and equal to men in conversation and desire.  She is not confined by monogamous contracts and conditions.  She is a free agent, to make any choices she wishes.

The modern esoterics suggest that enlightened sex in Tantric meditation can open portals to other worlds or dimensions.  Much of this philosophy was developed from reading and interpreting the sacred Kama Sutra texts (again Kama means a unique pleasure) which most believe were codified in 200 AD after the life of the Messaih.  So if Joseph Smith learned about sexual innovation, would that not mean Yeshua also taught these sexual innovations.  Maybe these teachings became the Kama Sutra.  Maybe.  But that would imply that Yeshua interfaced with the Indian culture.  Oh snap!  The legend of Issa/Isha.

"Hold on, you are going to far.  I can only take so much. [a la Fox in Sox].  Please stop."  Okay, for now, I will leave it there.  But in the Judeo/Christian-Mormon tradition we do have hushed speculations about the wife or wives of Yeshua and potential children.  Our tradition has already challenged the ascetic monastic portrayal established by the Roman tradition.
