So are you ready to deconstruct the Messiah Death Event?  Or do you want to continue in the traditions of your fathers?  Watch the Mel Gibson movie and feel the noble suffering.  When interviewed, Mel said some of his ideas came from a nun sitting in a monastery who had a vision of the 1700 lashes he received.  Okay, I can buy that element.  I am more susceptible to believe specific individual visions over institutional dogma any day.  The cosmic humor is, however, that the Brave Heart movie likely has more elements of what happened that the Passion movie.  

So if the Romans misrepresented about the destruction associated with the MDE (Messiah Death Event), would they also be misrepresenting the actual event?  

The death event is describe in Psalms 20-24.  American-Judeo/Christian-Mormon frameworks only want to focus on some palpable and palatable aspects.  Somehow Yeshua died without making a sound and without breaking a bone.  The complexity of the narrative becomes convoluted.  The FNAF can be difficult.  Maybe try reading the inconsistencies in the details of Psalm 22: bones out of joint, poured out, heart melts onto the intenstines; the phallus is withered and dried.   

Careful study and a few clear insights have helped me develop a much simpler explanation of what transpired that is consistent with the need for a Messiah and anchored to Mormon:  God's good love.  The ideas have evolved and updated significantly after having visions of empathy.  Now, is this the fulfillment of the Joseph Smith teaching that the wicked will feel what Yeshua felt.  I have tried on that hat.  Maybe I am wicked.  So how would I know what happened?  Was I there?  As an actor such as Ananais?  Or maybe I was a spermatozoon in Ananais' ballsack (read Hebrews in the New Testament if this idea is new to you)?

Would I not have to be in Yeshua's ballsack to have empathy for what He experienced?  Certainly Joseph Smith understood about the mixture of white fluids in sexual exhange, but was he aware of the concept of "spermatozoon" which was discovered well before his time?  How would Joseph Smith translate the "ballsack of Abraham" scripture found in Hebrews?  How would he have translated the number "eight" in Hebrews?  An inquisitive mind in all things.  Seemingly unrelated, until you know.  My dear reader, I hope you will one day know for yourself based on your own logical constructs.

The MDE:  Yeshua was captured with His disciples during a Purim holiday festival.  Every 40 days, the Jewish tradition would have a holiday or celebration, 9 in a year.  Passover is a festival following Purim (maybe immediately following).  The modern Christian form of Purim could be referred to as Carnaval.  Lent seems to represent 40 days of suffering between Purim and the Passover (MDE).  Purim is a celebration of Esther, a woman that prostituted herself to save her people.  She wore fine clothes that titillated the king and performed well in the bed chamber to win his favor.  Did she do that of her own free will, or was Mordecai her pimp?

So I imagine Yeshua is celebrating in what would be analagous to a road show we used to have in the Mormon Church: plays and skits.  Yeshua was likely difficult to identify because He was wearing makeup and was playing a role.  If He was the leader, it would be likely in this playful atmosphere, His character would have been Esther.  A garrison surrounds the event and seeks to make certain they apprehend the "ringleader".  The impetus man we call Peter (I have no idea what his Hebrew name was), pulls out a sword and is ready to fight.  Yeshua uses this as a teaching moment to remind Peter of His calling as an "apostle" - Peter must be sent away, He cannot join Yeshua and the disciples in the MDE.  Peter is bitter as he has to relent to this request.  And Yes, every time the Rooster crows (another title for Yeshua) as one of His children are tortured and killed in His presence, Peter weeps even more bitterly.  There was no betrayal among the twelve.  Nephi informs us of this.  They are the 12 stars.  Not 11 and one replaced by another later or by Paul or something.  Twelve of Yeshua's dearest friends were sent away.  Apostles.  In the Ancient American record, the 12 disciples know better than to claim a title that cannot belong to them.  They were not sent away!

So Yeshua and the remaining disciples were incarcerated for a time.  Maybe 5000 at the beginning, and only 4000 a short time later as 1000 were killed.  Or maybe the disciples could leave if they chose to be saved in the mortal condition.  Think how pompous and arrogant it would be for the Messiah to "lay down His life for His friends".  Juxtapose the inclusive love of "laying down your life with your friends".  One is condescending to the disciples, the other is empowering to the disciples.  This is a key ingredient in identifying the FAKE NEWS essence.  A true disciple of Yeshua would not bring traditional Roman hierarchy of hero-savior to the narrative.

Josephus mentions a prison in Machaerus and a First Revolt.  The narrative says John The Baptist was imprisoned and beheaded based on the whims of a woman.  Yet Yeshua was killed only after Roman approval.  There is something incongruent here.  A generation prior, Herod the Great had to receive permission from Rome when he wanted to kill anyone of importance.  Caesar Augustus is reported to having said it is safer to be a swine in Judea than to be an offspring of Herod.  This implies on more than one occasion Herod got permission to kill one of his progeny.  Such permission would take up to 18 months.

Josephus tells stories about 5000 being crucified near the time of Herod's death.  Herod had constructed Eagle statues (representing Rome) outside of the temple, but very near the entrance.  He went to a salt spring to be healed and the healing was unsuccessful.  The message got confused and was received as 'Herod has died.'  The leadership of Judea tore down the Eagles in front of the temple.  Herod had many of them crucified, imprisoned their children in a gymnasium and had these children killed the moment Herod actually died, so the elite class would mourn his death.  Now Josephus also tells a story about how a few of his friends were being crucified and he intervened and saved at least one but some died from their wounds.  Josephus then accounts that he was part of another rebellion of a messianic leader who was also beheaded and those loyal to the cause were trapped (in a cave or a fortress), played Russian roulette with a sword, and Josephus was the last man standing, so he lived to serve Rome and share his histories.  All of this is very bazaar.  But there are themes in the language emerging.

For a time, I can imagine Yeshua and the disciples were imprisoned outside of Jerusalem, likely in Machaerus.  However, at some point, they were moved to the temple grounds, being detained in the long-house, which in Hebrew is called a "stol".  If you were to examine the history of Ancient America, I am certain you will find a change point and introduction of the long house, after they learned from Yeshua and His disciples how they lived (and died).

What was the "stol"?  It was like a large Costco building where merchants were present.  The primary product offered were live animals for sacrifice.  Remember the reference to the story about Yeshua calling the merchants thieves, overturning their money tables and making a whip to drive them out of the temple grounds.  This was likely in the area of the temple grounds defined as the "stol".  Now the gospel of John suggests the timing of this event began Yeshua's ministry; other gospels suggest it ended the ministry.  Maybe both.  Or maybe the ministry was three-years of internment.

So how were the merchants thieves?  To arrive there, you have to understand the volume of the operation, and its efficiency.  Maybe 10k bulls, 100k goats, and even more smaller animals would be sacrificed in a 24-hour period.  How would you operationalize that effectively not considering the welfare of the animals?  That is, they are killed under distress, so the meat and sacrifice would not be fully authentic.  To understand the cruelty to the animals, you have to understand the sacrifice process.   And the best place to understand that would be the dedication of the temple that Solomon builded.  Then we can move onto the "thief" element of accusation.

The ratio of Bull (male, uncastrated cow) to goat at the dedication of Solomon seemed to be 1:5 ... for every bullock, five goats were offered.  So the high-end sacrifice was bovine, a young male bullock (not castrated).  And this was only the offering of Solomon (a free BBQ for the nation) but individuals could also present their offerings.  Whether these were offerings of sin or thanksgiving, burnt or shared, it is not entirely clear.  According to sacred practices, the animal was to be killed ever so quickly with a very sharp knife by cutting its throat from ear to ear (likely lower on the neck to be effective).  The animal would then likely be hung upside down to desangineate the meat.  The blood would flow freely on the ground, and the butcher would take some dust of the earth, cover some of the blood, and announce a blessing on the animal.  Certain parts of all animals would be burned up on the altar (the intestines being the obvious one).  Unkosher parts not burned would be thrown over a wall where dogs could feast.  The head of the goat would be fully burned on the altar, but the head of the cow would not be touched.  Maybe it would be a decoration in a home?  I do not understand what happened to his part.  Unkosher parts would include the genitalia region of the cow/goat, and the modern Kosher cuts remind us of the exclusion.  So the dogs would likely eat this part.  It was a remembrance of the time Jacob wrestled with God and received the name Israel.  Jacob reportedly never walked the same again after being sore from the anal penetration described as "the sorrowness in hollow of his thigh".  Very odd data!

So the primary corpus of the animal was quartered.  Cut in half along the spine and about the midsection.  The nervous-system (spinal cord) was removed and also considered unclean to eat.  Depending on the nature of the sacrifice, the four portions were shared among the worshippers, the priests, and the fire.  Recall that Samuel became prophet because Eli's sons would game the system to get more meat for the priests.  Exploit the poor.

A typical worshipper would likely have basic eating implements:  maybe a bowl and a spoon.  So how would the meat be prepared to it was easy to eat?  Enter the copper basins of Solomon.   I don't understand the order of the cooking process, but boiling meat will tenderize tougher cuts.  The concept of stewing meat, or pot roast.  Ancient Americans would dig a pit, fill it with water and boil the water with fire to cook a bison immediately after killing it.  To make the meat more tender, easier to eat.

So in the temple, we have an altar for BBQ and a basin for softening the meat.  How does this process scale.  How would you costco-ify this process?  How would that gain in operational efficiency offend Yeshua as it mistreated the animals.  The queueing of the animals would be the obvious answer.  I imagine that an animal approaches a priest, the priest touches the head, blesses the animal while a worker wraps a rope around the hind legs.  The priest cuts the throat and the blood begins to flow while workers pull on the rope (or pulley system) to invert the animal and allow it to bleed out.  How long would this take?  5 minutes?  5 hours?  After, the animal would be skinned and the meats prepared.  Very likely, salt (of the earth, not from the Dead Sea) would be applied and it would be thrown in a water bath to further remove blood from the meat.   So was the basin heated or just a place to soak the meat?  A copper basin could easily be heated if necessary.

Now, how would you scale that process to be more effective?  Easy, the priest could offer a prayer over 20 animals already inverted.  20 people could cut 20 throats simulteanously, capture the blood in a large container to not overwhelm and saturate the ground.  A batch processing would definitely be stressing the animals and inject cortisol/adrenalin into the blood and meats.

So the traditional American-Judeo/Christian-Mormon tradition is that Yeshua was the "Lamb of God" with a reference in the the gospel attributed to John to be the clear marker.  Could a "Bullock of God" also have been a Good Shepherd?  Within an agrarian society, would Ferninand the Bull be placed with his friends (sheep and goats) and be a formidable challenge to a wild animal that may attack the herd?  Was the Bull considered a sacred language in any Ancient cultures?  That is, did the 10 friends all revere the Bullock as a sacred animal?  And what of the skins use for the sacred texts found in Qumran.  It seems Ibex was used for earthly texts and Bovine/Goat was used for sacred texts?

Why would Europe brutalize traitors by hanging/drawing/quartering/beheading them; placing the body parts throughout different areas of the region (head on a pike) or burn them alive?  Where would such techniques come from.  Why separate the body?  "So the family would not retrieve it and claim the dead was resurrected and alive?"  Where would such a consideration come from?

Where did the Scandinavians get the idea of the "Blood Eagle" and the nobility of dying from this method without complaint?  Eagle Rome.  Giving humans wings (every time a bell rings, an angel gets its wings - the gruesome version).  "All of my bones are out of joint."

So Yeshua was imprisoned on the temple grounds between Purim and Passover.  Likely the gates were guarded so they were allowed to eat/sleep/play as needed.  Every day a bell would ring and a few of the disciples would be tortured and killed in front of the remaining disciples.  What would Yeshua do?  If these were true friends, the momentary death would be devastating, but could eat/sleep/play still be possible.  Could you put on a lens eternal and minimize the moments of suffering?  "Hey, let's play futbol today... we can use Sally's head (who had been killed yesterday) for a ball!"  What else could you do?  This is an extended torture event.  Maybe they were also being starved and forced to eat forbidden meat?

And what would the main event be?  It would be tied to the Passover, and involve the Sagrada Family.  This torture would be extended.  Saints would be hanging from an Asherah tree, likely an almond or pomegranate tree offering shade for the workers over the fire.  Remember Josiah reading of the prophecy and his response: "maybe I can prevent the MDE if I remove the trees and punish the kohen (priests)?".  Carefully reading Isaiah, Yeshua likely had the famous statement "King of the Jews" branded into his (left?) thigh.  Likely the great prophets were honored with dying an honorable death, or suffering some of the things Yeshua suffered.  Job had worms eating at his flesh, Isaiah may have been sawed in half.  And so on.  More imagery from Psalms 22.

So likely the bulls of Bashan were there in reference to living animals, not the statues holding up the water basin.  In an automated system, you would have the bulls circumambulating to convey a rope system.  Likely the larger animals were alive and already tied in an inverted position so the process could be expedited.  There is some evidence that the blood was being collected rather than being returned to the earth.  If you do any research on animal slaughter, such stressful conditions are not healthy for the animal nor will it benefit in the quality of the meet.  Andrenalin and cortisol will flood the blood that will embue the meat.  (HRC may have some perspectives on this topic for anyone interested in that conspiratorial thread).  So if there was such a conveyor system, you would want to start and stop the bulls of bashan who are ambulating the system.  Somehow Yeshua was tied to this start/stop mechanism, a rope tied to his left hand, his hands bound (possibly with some of the five golden rings).  If you were to see Yeshua's shadow, it would appear that his hand(s) was like a Rooster's cone.  And the Romans would play some sort of game to let chance determine which torture would occur next.  To Yeshua' right was his primary para-amour, "the cat in the cradle" (spiritually named Sophia)... her skin was grated on one random turn.  The most often turn would be her being exploited sexually either with large-phallus men or orally.  One of their children (Matthew) was gutted like a pig in their presence.  And everyone in the entire city could hear the "cock crow"... somehow the game was tied to the strength of Yeshua, but eventually, his left arm would fail him and the next torture round would occur.  And likely this torture was extended across many days.  Between the torture times, the family had to eat/sleep/pray.  Obviously, the primary love was non-plussed with this event and was clearly communicating "you can control the universe, you can fix this..."  Yet, Yeshua, relented.  Somehow she lived and survived the event and became the widow saint.  So Yeshua would care for the living children.  Yeshua would bathe them and treat their wounds in the basin.  One of his son's had a slight piercing on his left side.  Certainly, previously, Yeshua would comfort those that died before, and likely the concept of "baptism for the dead" was developed.  Yeshua was bathing them in the basin of the temple which had 12 bullocks (oxen) as statues upholding the large tub.

Although a game a chance, Yeshua is extraordinary and clairvoyant, as are the children.  Likely the family game was intertwined with his personal suffering and torture.  5 golden rings.  Two pierced on each breast, at some point tearing the flesh into two shapes that are recognized by Judean temple goers:  the square and compass (similar to the Ancient American Blood Sun Dance).  Yeshua's torture was manipulated using a pulley system, ropes could quickly invert Him or force Him upright.  At some point a "staurus" was placed in His anus and was pushed through the body and forced out of the underside of his chin likely pinning the tongue preventing any more coherent speech.  All without killing Him.  The Romans had killed thousands, they were very capable at extending the death event if they desired.  Finally, after days of torture, the family game was being played.  And Yeshua saw the prized desire of the Romans.  There was a flood of fear, which I interpreted to be Yeshua's fear, but as I have reflected, it seems to be Yeshua's empathy for His beloved son as Yeshua anticipated something severe like the Blood Eagle would be performed on the son.  Yeshua succumbed, there was a tipping point point.  The last straw.  So somehow Yeshua and the son communicated telepathically and it was decided to manipulate the "random" outcome, and little boy blue was hanging and dead.  Yet it was an agreed upon decision by the father and the son.  It was better than what was planned by the Romans.  

The wheel of fortune was also developed in a vertical fashion where smaller animals were alive, inverted, and ready for purchase for the sacrifice.  This wheel would be a method the merchants would use "chance" to extort the poor.  The merchants would exploit the ignorance of the poor and offer some illogical promotion.  A turtle dove is X, but if you pay 2X you have a chance to win a goat!  Something like this.  The den of thieves.  This device was somehow used in the family torture event, among the adults.  Yeshua with mom, the primary para-amour and other important women were all stripped naked, and nailed together at the knee and angle to create a star of humans on the wheel.  Maybe six humans.  Maybe some men, but it seems to be Yeshua and influential women in His life.  Maybe their nakedness revealed their Ancient Egyptian style of grooming (hairless), or maybe it was forced upon them to match the modern implementation (Roman).  Every imaginable perversion of sexual manipulation was likely imposed on Yeshua, and some of the women.  Acts performed on all of their orifices.  Acts forced upon them with each other and animals and children that violated every possible Mosaic law.  In 40 days, the Romans could review the 600+ laws of Moses, and made certain Yeshua or one of the disciples engaged in a violation and then delivered a punishment.  At some point, Yeshua was castrated and possibly gagged with His own phallus.  His semen was somehow defiled based on the Roman imaginations.  In the end, it seems the core group of women were set free after the brutality.  That did not women were spared among the 5000.  The pre-event before the main event.

Let me emphasize, I had flash visions that I have merged with my understanding of the clues in the canon and other studies and intuitions.  Yet, maybe the current construction also suffers from FNAF.  Specifically, the authorized canon introduced a polemics frame:  Yeshua did a good thing, the Jewish leaders said good was bad, and wanted to kill Him.  Yeshua would confront the leaders and put them in their place with intellect and wit demonstrating his superiority.  A classic polemic paradigm which suggests my understanding may need to update as I iterate into the stories of His life.  Like a spiral, this will cause me to loop through dependencies of other paradigms.

Finally, the end was near.  Yeshua was blood-eagled.  Did not say a word.  At some point between tortures, Yeshua was bathed by the cousin, who claimed to be unworthy to do so.  Maybe this was in addition to the fresh-water baptism in flowing water, but this happened in the water-basin in the temple.

The spectacle of the main event was scheduled, likely for Passover.  This was Pontius Pilate communicating to the Judean leaders that Rome was in charge.  The final day, Yeshua was inverted and offered as a sacrifice on the altar of the temple in the same manner as a bullock (after being blood eagled, so inverted with wings on his back).  Once inverted, Yeshua pleaded:  "rendire' me corazon" and the wish was granted.  When Yeshua had His throat cut from ear to ear, congulated blood flowed (white and clear in color, like white wine [water] not red wine).  And likely Pontius made certain this occurred within the Holy of Holies.  And likely the High Priest, the Kohen, was forced to do this.  Possibly thereafter, the chief priests were forced to drink the blood (water to wine) and eat the flesh.

The greatest weapon may be the weapon of the martyr (see the movie RRR).  Word spread of the ultimate blasphemy imposed by the Romans and 100,000+ men stormed the temple and attacked the Romans.  [Do we ever hear anything in history about Pointius Pilate after this event?  But there was some history before?]  

The temple was destroyed by their own hands, brick by brick.  As Yeshua predicted, if you read the Greek rendition: they (Romans) will kill me and you will destroy this temple in only a few days.  Maybe the earthquake initiated the destruction of the temple.  Maybe it was a trigger to announce the significance of the blasphemy.  Yet in the Judean construct, maybe they did not comprehend the blasphemy.  Maybe they thought it was the Roman blasphemy, not their own.  Not self aware.  The tidbit of evidence for this is 3 Nephi, Yeshua being troubled for Judea not understanding.

So was the prophecy of Isaiah about two wild bulls lying dead in the street for "three" days already fulfilled?  Two male bulls?  Or maybe two cows: one male and one female?

Was the Matthew 24 prophecy also fulfilled? That is, if Yeshua died on May 5th, was the resurrection when He and many of the saints (His disciples who died before Him) appeared in the clouds and added to the destruction with vengeance.  Or did they arrive peacefully like in 3 Nephi and minister.  Did they bring peace or the sword.  I imagine the sword given the context of the torturing that just transpired.

The traditional narrative says Ananais was the bad guy and Joseph of Arithmathea was the good guy.  Some suggest Joseph was very wealthy, a tin trader; one story suggests that Mary, the mother of Yeshua, was taken to Glastonbery.  Maybe Sophia joined her.  But then the question naturally arises: how did Joseph make all of his money?  Did he exploit the poor to do so?  Therefore, what you think you know is likely all convuluted.  What I can say is that there were three people that triggered this outcome.  Brothers, one being a member of the Sanhedrin and the other a merchant in the "stol" likely both offended by Yeshua's cleansing of the temple.  The third was a son of one of the brothers yet bearing the names of both his father and uncle.  So if brother #1 was John and brother #2 was Paul, #3 could have been James John-Paul or something like that.

Just as there is an anomalous gap in the history from Malachi to the time of Yeshua, there appears to be a similar gap in history from 31 AD until 70 AD or so.  And much later, about 300 AD, a Roman narrative was crafted to align Romanism with Christianity.  Outlier beliefs were marginalized:  esoterics, gnostics, Arius, and so on.  Out were the gospels of Mary Magdalena and Thomas, and in was the testimony of three or four that were sourced from only one or two.  Redactions and edits to create a consistent story, but remnants pervade the story.  Most especially the clues in the gospel attributed as John although everyone knew at the time that this was a different writer than the Apocalypse of Revelation.  Greco-Roman Christianity was born.  Standarized and globalized.  Institutionalized.

If I would want to try and unlock the fundamental teachings, I would try to ascertain the locations of the earliest Christian communities, look for clusters and examine their teachings.  Seemingly, there were several esoteric groups (gnostics) in the Egyptian regions that had very unique perspectives regarding what Yeshua taught (specifically the Gospel of Thomas and the Gospel of Mary Magdala come to mind, but this is not exhaustive).  Then, consider what was NOT adopted 200+ years later at the Council of Nicea (Nicolas vs Arius) or in the early Church (Augustine vs Fortunato.  Finally, consider inconsistencies in the formalized canon that are incongruent and make necessary adjustments.  For example, the Babylonian 7-day week was not standardized in Roman culture until at least 100 AD.  They were using the 8/9 day week of the Estruscans.  The concept of a 7-day week is inconsistent with ancient calendars that defined 10-day decans (weeks).  If you review Genesis 1, the "seven" days of creation refer to ten created elements.  Not all Judeans were influenced by Babylonian captivity as they fled to Egypt and likely maintained the traditions of 10 days.  So when you read Revelation that over-emphasizes the number 7, that is a clue the text has been heavily edited/redacted.  A simple analysis of the churches in Asia that Paul/John knew of get you to at least 10.  Changing numbers is an easiest form of intentional manipulation.

Regardless, these glimpses in the MDE are very different than the narrative proferred by Constantine over two hundred years later.  Recall what we learn from 3 Nephi about how two hundred years can make people forget.  The amazing in America, and the ugly in the Levant.

Personal spiritual insights have clarified some of these extraordinary details.  However, simple triangulation tied to the interactions of Ancient America will clarify the primary thread.  The MDE was very different than the Constantine narrative.  Yeshua being inverted and the tomb referencing the body and head separately are both detailed in the cannonized Gospel attributed to John, if you know to look.

Ancient America is the key inconsistency that triggers an understanding that the MDE was fabricated FAKE NEWS.  For example, in Ancient America, many cronists joined the conquistadores.  Many were foreigners from other countries like Germany and Russia.  They were promised adventure and a land were all of the women ran around naked.  One group of women were very tall, and very blonde and only had hair on their head and a small bracelet around their waists.  Otherwise, completely naked and unashamed.  As I reflect on this data point, I ponder was this a Nephi convention when he examined the life and customs of Joseph of Egypt and applied them in his interactions with the many tribes of the ancient nation of South America.  Lehi picks up on the Adam/Even imagery when they arrive, so likely the locals are as naked as can be and unashamed.  So did Nephi go native?  Or did the 3 Nephi visit introduce a change point.  My current construct is the "long house" was a change point, but sexual freedom was natural and was prior to the Roman perversions imposed during the MDE.

Many of these cronists told amazing stories.  Some was propaganda, other was likely more insightful and objective.  For example, the redacted and edited narrative of Colon's first voyage is not as reliable as the journal of a doctor who served as an officer on the second voyage.  This journal has no edits or redactions.  Many would carve imagery of what they saw.  Was it all myth to sell copies, or was there something amazing from the societies they observed.  The Medici family was a prolific collector of all information American even before Amerigo allegedly visited the New World (many of the records "mysteriously" destroyed by fire); likely America (and Columbia) were local words to describe different aspects of the colonization.  All of this American information floods Europe and suddenly DaVince and Galileo and mathematicians get smart.  A renaissance occurs.  I wonder what information triggered such an awakening.  Not really.

The primary data point is one such wood carving.  It shows Spaniards hanging a group of local Ancient Americans, and starting a fire.  I believe it was German woodcut.  It read:  the locals were burned for speaking blasphemy about the apostles (disciples?).  An articulation of the specificity of the blasphemy was not included, but the gravity of the data point is very informative.  If the Ancient Americans thought the MDE was X and were taught it was Y by the Spanish, they made corrections that the Spaniards deemed to be blasphemous.  Yeshua was likely killed over the altar of the Judean temple, yet the Aztecs are barbarious and pagan to perform the same ritual:  human blood sacrifice.  Logic dictates that maybe the Aztecs were rebels, but they knew the story and would perform the ritual on an honorable member of their enemies.  Or maybe they knew that a sacrifice of a righteous man would bring an age of properity and they wished to restore that outcome.  Tribes in South America would similarly kill honorable men of enemy tribes.  The tribal warrior who captured an honorable man was given several perks:  the captive would live in his community and sleep with the daughter/sister assigned (have sexual intercourse with a potential child).  After about 30 days, the captive would be presented to the village offered small stones/pebbles that could be thrown at the tribe and a speech was permitted.  Thereafter the tribal warrior responsible with the capture would sneak up on the man from behind and unexpectedly smash his head with a large wooden club, killing the captive.

The distortion of cannibalism among some tribes in South America juxtaposed against the peaceful other tribes that would not fight are also very interesting.  But the small nuggets of wisdom will be pieced together from seemingly unimportant elements extracted from the cronistas.  For example, the dances and shared drink created by women spitting in a pot.  The flute of South America, the peace-pipe of North America.  And so many other elements.  So maybe the geography foundation is the next key marker on the path.

So Colon arrives in America with 75 men.  Colon sees things.  Colon returns to Spain tells the story, his journal is redacted.  A few months later (after using the captured slaves to discuss the New World and communicating across languages), 1500 men return to America.  And they are certain to emphasize that New World did not have black people (Caliphate Moors in Spain, Granada timing), did not have certain crops, did not have horses, or iron, and so on.  The details show inconsistencies of the crafted narrative.  Fabricated by the CABAL for self-preservation motives.  But certainly they were interested in the gold.  True scholarship would be change-point analysis given much of the information was likely deeply vaulted or burned to hide the truth.  Could you analyze the Spanish language before/after Colon?  Was the a difference in structure, not just a few loan words?  And portugues?  What were the original propositions explaining the New World in the circulating documents?  What data cause the first enlightenment (following 1492)?  What data cause the second enlightenment when the heart of Africa was penetrated (Timbuktu and advanced mathematics such as fluxions)?  Change-point analysis will make the FAKE NEWS obvious.  For now, let's begin by focusing on the lands and geography of Nephi.