The geography of Ancient America as well as a true understanding of their histories before and after the prophesized 1492 are essential to developing a healthier construct of reality.

The Arabian travels are all basically decided based on what Nephi shares, but the excitement and intrigue that he does not share are outlined in Isaiah (and likely fully explained by his father Lehi):  the arrows of Kedar, the rescue by Tayma with food/water, and the great escape with the Ark of the Covenant.  Great indeed are the words of Isaiah!  I would only add a few key elements, specifically the markers to the basic Arabian geography:  Shazer, Irreantum, and Bountiful.  

Shazer is a Egyptian/Hebrew word meaning "garden of birth" [sha is garden in Egytian, zer is issue/seed/birth like Zerahemla].  April 5th-ish, a comet appears in the sky, the Liahona provides the impetus to get a pregnant women to journey a few short days to the location of Moses/Joshua's communications with God (the true Sinai).  Later, this same location would be where Jesus was transfigured and Mohammed would have his vision in the mountains.  A cross-roads of holiness which suggestions that Noah and Abraham would have also had spiritual experiences there.  The sons of Joseph are going to have lots of children and the daughters of Joseph are going through the wall (Gen 49:22) which includes likely one woman giving birth within the wall. [The stick of Judah/Joseph as Mulek/Nephi enjoining to become one people.  Maybe a truer interpretation of the original prophecy of Ezekial.]  Maybe almond blossoms are falling or a late winter snow.  Maybe both.  A difficult birthing process with the umbilical cord twisting around Jacob's neck.  Yet he survives and the signs in the sky are a marker (the comet later named after Halley).  600 years after Jacob's birth, another birth would occur; the birth of Yeshua.  The 600 year prophecy.  And the 2100 year prophecy would follow about a Judean among the Gentiles that would arrive and bring death and destruction, summarized by one word:  Colon-mbia.  Did Nephi remove this as a teaching tool "fill in the blank"?  Or did scribal filtering remove this because it was too blatant and obvious a prophecy?

Irreantum is a Tamil word describe the red bloom of algae that can live in both salt and fresh water.  The trade route by water between India and Egypt was well established.  Irreantum was originally bastardized by early German map makers and a region near the dangerous gulf of Aden is today called Eritrea.  The label may have been a naming convention used by sailors to describe regions as it would appear arriving by boat from a specific direction (from the east as the likely default).  Ir means city, re-ee may mean ridge than water, and antium may mean port, specifically a foreign port.  Traveling from India toward Egypt, you will see a city, than a ridge (shoulder), than water (maybe waterfall), than you will arrive at the port.  Now apply this to other words prevalent in South America:  Parana, Iguazu, Ituzaingo, Ibicui as travel markers.  Other names were functional markers to distinguish the locations contribution to the greater society:  Arikat, Aripuana, Ariquelmes, Ariquipa often being associated with different tribes in different locations.  Other names may just be descriptive with repetition emphasizing grandeur:  Titicaca where "nti" means worthless to "ti" may mean invaluable.  And "ca" means hill or mountain so "caca" would mean a very high mountain or elevation.

Based on access to iron ore, the name for the land and city of Bountiful in the local language was likely Khori-Khori (likely why Korihor was named thus).  Bountiful does not mean bounteous.  It means a land of liberty and freedom, a different form of society than Lehi had experienced in his lifetime.  Shown to Nephi in his youth so he could understand some of the primary principles and adopt them when society flourished when the people of Nephi became servant leaders of the many distinct local tribes they encountered.  Laman went the traditional route, using fear/power to exploit the weak.  A cronista curator described the arrival of two brothers by boat as the Tupi-Guarani with the locals saying the name of their God was Tupa.  If Nephi is the good guy, the man of God, it is not difficult to isolate which brother carried which name.  Was this an initial name or a name after the Yeshua visit?  Tupa is a God of thunder and lightning like Thor in Viking tradition and like Jehovah in Canaanite tradition.  The choice of this name fascinates me.

They traveled south, stopping for water on an island today called Comores (Cum - or - yah ... the rising light of Jehovah) that has a river called Moroni (brackish water way?).  Supposed the word Moroni means river or at the river in the local language.  Oddly, this same stem "Moron" means river in the Mongolian language.  I would estimate after the departure, the arrival to an island to find fresh water is when the brothers opened some honey wine to celebrate that this crazy idea of their brothers would actually work.  The shunting of the boat suggests the type of sale and the novelty was likely a trimaran similar to the Fijian Drua.  So they arrived at about 30 degrees south on a western shore.  That was likely the clue Joseph Smith was given, he equated that with his personal studies with a dear friend (Frederick Granger Williams) as Valparaiso Chile.  If the Atlantic was transversed, it would minimize the miles traveled.  They could hug the African coast until traveling to Gough Islands (where Napoleon was later exiled).  The season winds would bring them up the eastern coast of Brasil.  Likely they landed at a mbya in Brasil.  Then they found an opening that God provided (para - ana; para can mean "opening" but also "fruitful"; the concrete is more likely than the abstract in Ancient Egyptian/Hebrew) that was as wide as an ocean but containing fresh water.  Unlike today, they didn't name subrivers, everything would be stems of the Parana as the Nile was refered in Ancient Egypt.  In the greater Rosario area of Argentina (Parana river near Esquina) on the western shore of the river, they likely first disembarked on the shore (or more likely on a river island).  Later the many other rivers would be discovered and the lands of first arrival would become Nephi's first inheritance, named Uruguay as uru-gua-ee the pure big waters.  Jacob and Joseph were likely given Paraguay as para-gua-ee the opening of big water (Corrientes northward, maybe also Salta westward).  Lehi likely saw the waterfalls of Bountiful (Saulala) and the great falls of Iguazu and Guiara as a fulfillment of his spiritual name lia-a-a-ee. A play on words to the way to the river islands (Isaiah reference again).  Lehi's inheritance was Guiara (north) and his first-born was given Guarani (eastward Laman the son of Laman).  When Nephi separated himself from Laman, he left the river shed of the Parana and entered into the watershed in today's parlance labeled Amazon, but likely was Moroni or something like that.  Moroni means "bitter way" but also means "captain of the navy".  The fundamental flaw of all geographic speculations is the lack of understanding of the importance of Nephi's first innovation even though Mormon makes it very clear that shipping was a key capability of their society.  And tall strong soldiers.  And swords.  And swords beat into ploughshares to create mounds and earthworks.  

Reading the 1828 dictionary, the concepts of "marching" and "wilderness" can be applied to the movement and engagment of maritime military vessels in the open seas.  This would imply that the head of the river would mean its confluence into the Ocean, the delta of Sidon (or deep inlet depending on the geology at the time).


The separation required loading the valuables onto the original ship (even though they likely had built others) and sale north to the highlands of Paraguay, abandon the ship, travel on foot a short distance, and create an initial community in Rhodonia.  Jacob/Joseph would establish villages further west into Bolivia on the rivers.  Zoram would establish a center for trade on the river island called Santarem today.  Salt would be harvested from the island and eventually be traded to other communities thousands of miles away.  Traveling for the city of Zoram to Zarahemla [hundreds of years later] would take about 20 days.  Out the mouth of the Amazon, resupplying in Manti (the tip of the Yucatan or the island Colon initially discovered, like the first).  Manti in Egyptian means the same thing as Xcaret in Mayan (rising sun) yet Xcaret is functional in Egyptian to describe how to define the port (ee-she [not sha like shazer?] ca-ret: water and beach and small hill and lagoon - Cancun [Ca-een {maybe kaan} cum {as in cum - or - yah}] westward past a small hill to a port with "Cozumel" [Kosh-zem-el {birdsnare-rings-El}] to the south).  The word for mountain or hill (har/khar in Egyptian/Hebrew would be simplified, dropping the last consonant to "ca" or "kha" depending on the pronunciation mapping.  This is found in old Guarani dictionaries.  Similarly, Ari-Kat in Chile becomes Ari-Ka.  Emphasis is on the sound made not the modern spelling.  As a lingua franca, simplicity will alter the original word.  Mormon may call the city Manti (Egyptian word for sunrise), but the locals call it Xcaret which they equate with meaning sunrise, but the functional meaning is very maritime focused.  Arrive from the East to the ee-ui-ca-ton (Yucatan) penisula, on the southern side, find the waters / beach / small hill / lagoon, this is the port for traveling.  

It seems that Cum may imply "eastern".  So if Manti was 60 km or so westward on the southern coast of the Yucatan, the eastern-most point would be a lookout, a "watchtower".  In times of peace, the Cancun beach would be a place for families to enjoy together, especially the warrior class (navy and marines).  Modern Puerto Morales would likely be where the soldiers would garrison.  And the battles for the city of Manti likely occurred on the beaches of what is today called Playa Carmen (car - mon).  Soldiers would prepare for battle by connecting to the powers of the Ceiba tree (Yaxche).  A meal would be shared, incense from the sap of the tree would be burned.  Somber dances would be performed.  Some would take a small sacrament of the hardened sap; others would put the same into a mead (honey or beer or maybe wine).  This was a sacred ritual as the tree was believed to be a stairway to heaven for those that would die in battle.  

The specific battle mentioned in Manti was likely triggered by an impatient/impetus woman (hell hath no fury like a woman scorned) that believed she loved a man from the approaching enemy army.  Or women were fighting over material possessions and luxuries.  And this same woman, or another, later was able to beguile the invading forces somehow enabling the success of Moroni to retake the city of Manti before re-engaging the attacking forces.  There may have been a circumabulation event (counter-clockwise) like Jericho to empower the recapture of the heart of Manti.

Coba (white roads?) was likely the main city center of Manti, Xcaret was the merchant port and Xelha was the port for families and people.  (ee-sha-el-ya from "shell-hah" as water beach, [elijah?] about fresh-water lagoon?).  Moroni enetering into a backdoor to recapture Manti may have been via Xelha.

Cozumel is a functional name for how the island contributes to the society and economy.  Other locations for living, farming and fishing may be dispersed, but Xcaret in the hub of civilization (aka Manti).  Over 40,000 Maya lived on Cozumel when "Colon-mbia" but shortly thereafter only 300 remained.  It was not disease but rather a knowledge and a scattering.  They were warned what would occur 2100 years prior.  In the Gua-ta-maa-la region of the lands of Maya, early Catholic priests noted that there was a significant negative birth rate.  Another way to address "Colon-mbia" ... live a life in peace but do not bring children into the world to be enslaved and indoctrinated.  More severe solutions have been noted in the wood carvings.  A beautiful woman, very tall and blonde and naked, hanging herself after taking a club and killing her young daughter.  Is that a better solution than becoming sex-slaves for the arriving conquistadores?  Her life, her child, her choice.  



And Zerahemla would be exactly where Joseph described, across from Nauvoo.  Zera- issue hemla/khemla - saved ... the saved son of Zedekiah. Both stems can be easily found in a Strong's Concordance Hebrew dictionary.  Nephi was anchored to Egyptian whereas Mulek would have a more comprehensive education in both Egyptian and Hebrew.  However, with limited records, Mulek's influence in the development and evolution of language would be limited.  That does not me the oral traditions would not influence the language; for example, the chiasmic style of oral storytelling/poetry influenced the leadership of the people of Nephi when first encountering the people of Mulek.  And the two peoples quickly become one.

That river system toward Zerahemla would be called Sidon (the entire system of the Missouri, Mississippi, Ohio, and so on).  Cahokia as Ca-khok-ee-yah (Strongs Hebrew: hill/mound border/boundary of waters of Jehovah): western official boundary of lands of Zerahemla as Zera-khemla (Strongs Hebrew: posterity of mercy)?

The waters of Mormon and the city of Noah (Alma and Abinadi) was in the highlands connecting the Amapu area of the Amazon with the Guiana (gee-ee-ana, the valley and water that God provides) areas of the northern river systems with the primary river named Moroni today.  Where the Moroni entered the Caribbean, there was likely an island named Moroni there (or the island could have been a name for Puerto Rico, a Bahama island, or Cuba).  A city or land of Moronihah would mean it was like the city of Moroni but in the land northward.  The original city of Noah was equated with El Dorado, the city of gold.  Recall Noah built facades for the chief priest made from gold as he double-taxed the people and Abinadi informed Noah/Alma of the great sin of exploiting the poort.  This is where Lamanite kings established themselves because the soils were much richer than the fluvial amazon soils (which Nephi had made farmable with black-earth fertilizer technolgoy).  

Cuba, Puerto Rico, Northern Florida (Coco beach), and Myrtle Beach (Mulek) were likely the Eastern shores captured by the Lamanites in the wars described in Alma.  They could not enter the entry points of the river Sidon in the "Gulf of Mexico" so they would land on the eastern seaboard and try to cross territory on land.  

The city of Mulek may likely represent the first settlement of the Mulekites when delivered by Phoenician boats to the Americas (approximately the same latitude as the port of Sidon in the Levant).  Interestingly, the local fish "pacu" is a relative of the Brasilian "piranha" so this fish may have been transported and farmed.  To eat?  Walls and fortifications to prevent further advancement north were likely built near Myrtle Beach but the wave of forces were overwhelming.  To the south of this location was likely the river that led to the city.  Today, this river is called Santee.  Anciently, it has another name that can be decomposed to describe how to arrive at port if approaching from the east (iswan'ti as ee-sha-wau-anti ... water, beach, pure{lake?}, foreign/manmade?).  Interestingly, the local languages (Catawban) are most similar to the Sioux nations (Lakota, Dakota) which may suggest that Hagoth going North may have been with a core group of Mulekites.

[Miami ... Ami-Ami (Ohio and Florida)].  The city of Bountiful was likely on the river today called Scioto (maybe modern Columbus).  Nearby, was the temple of Bountiful which could be reached by the "little Scioto" (Ohio Brush Creek).  The temple of Bountiful was near or part of the Serpent Earth Work in Ohio.  

Southern Indiana has a defense system along the river preventing entry into Bountiful.  This narrow neck of defense was along the Sidon, 100 miles of fortification in modern southern Indiana (ending near Louisville Kentucky).  Throw a few logs in the river (Madeira River connection) to create a defensive locks system and this would protect the entrance to the land of Bountiful (the Ohio River valley all the way to New York and Virginia, Myrtle Beach being a boundary of a land based on its philosphy and government).   The Hopi are the anti-war peoples of Anti-Nephi-Lehi.  

The narrow neck of land separating the lands north/south is the Darian gap.  Obvious.  Trade across oceans occurred near Boquete, Panama.  One could travel by one ocean to the other in a day.  Likely some pulley/gondola-like system was developed to transport certain essential goods over land.  Travel to Tonga and Hawaii occurred at some point (10K balsas returning with a jawbone), as did travel to the "Columbia" River basin by the "Sahaptin"... the story of Hagoth is not this.  That is, the Book of Mormon does not describe the travels in the Pacific or along the west coasts of the Americas.  But Chile and Titicaca are extant, the Bolivian traditions established by Jacob/Joseph remained even though the pure-bloods fled the region.   The temples of Peru and the Incas practices many of the same socio-economic principles instilled by Nephi and placed their gold within the temple to demonstrate that God is more important than gold.  The Hagoth ships merely traveled northward up to Minnesota or up the Missouri to the land of ten thousand lakes (Minnesota / North Dakota) into Montana.  Maybe at some point, the most distant of Hagoth settlements would encounter the most distant of the Sahaptin settlements, but that would require traversing mountains on foot, without boats.  When Colon first arrived he was attacked and defeated by a naval force.  On his return, he could not find it.  They likely understood that "Colon-mbia" and took off northward to escape the prophesied holocaust.  "Colon-mbia" represents the event of the "arrival of Colon" whereas "Colon-mbu" (Columbus) would represent the arrival of peoples resulting from the event.

Since the Colon-mbia (Guarani) or Colon-bia (Hebrew) event was prophesied with a timeline (maybe precisely "2100 years" or maybe "at least 2000 years"), it should not suprise us to learn about the Mar-ajo-ara (Marajo) or Ani-sha-zi (Anisazi) or Tam-wau-nch-ana (Tamoanchan) civilizations that seemed to be flourishing before Colon-mbia but just vanished from the archaelogical record before having any Colon-mbu interactions.

The temple of Jehovah that builded Nephi was likely in the Rhodonia's on a large plateau landscape.  Jacob/Joseph had smaller centers of workship on the rivers heading into Bolivia.  The name on the map is literally "X marks the spot" if you study a few Egyptian words:  "Uru Ea Wau Wau" which may translate as "purity holiness great great God".  

Nephi would build fortifications and his lands in the Tocatins, so he could keep an eye on his brothers and protect as many innocent tribes as he could.  He was the father of cunadismo fathering children from every village to unify the tribes into a large family, the people of Nephi.  Jacob was the one emphasizing the preservation of the pure blood line (likely based on his personal understanding of his job).  Likewise, Nephi saw that he was the father of many peoples, likely of all skin colors.  So when Nephi dies, Jacob gives a speech, "don't do what my brother did"!


As the civilization prospered, additional Great Works were created following the records of Joseph from Egypt who had the title of Ari-Kat.  The Easter Island Wall, the gates of Titicaca were an innovative brick devised out of a geopolymer:  ash from burning date palms and waterglass (a natural occurring silicate).  This was the same technology to build bricks to build the Steppe and Great pyramids.  Likely the the Machu Pichu temple structures as well as the Mayan pyramid structures were also built from this specialized brick that appears to be stone (and maybe the Olmec heads).  Olmecs seemed to have dominated in 1000BC but disappeared in 500BC so possibly they were bullies from Africa that could bully no more.  Examine a map.  Find "Arika(t), Aripuana, Ariquipa" or some variation and you know where the skill centers of society existed.  Often in more than one place with very different tribes and languages.  Connected into a common economy and society.  Now extend the logic and find the ancient word used for "Port / Puerto".  Mapping cities to internal Book of Mormon geography will quickly fall into place.  Mayan structures were the cement buildings where wood was scarce, so they used wood from the south (date palms) as a primary catalyst for the geo-polymer fancy bricks that seem to be stone.  MesoAmerica was important.  Heartland was important.  South America was important.  Nephi was not a lightweight.  His technologies made it to Tonga and the Pacific Northwest.  And maybe Norway, northern Europe!




Did Nephi return to Africa, Bountiful, or even explore India in his lifetime?  We do not know this.  Did he bring others from these distant lands?  We do not know this.  Did his people try and explore the seas?  Certainly that is the case.  Did they adventure eastward toward Scandinavia/Europe (were they the Vikings/Anglo-Saxons/Franks)?  We don't know this.  But such a robust civilization would disrupt many modern taxonomies because all of them assume that trans-oceanic travel was not possible.  The Persian walnut taken to America by Mulek and the Phoenicians as the Black Walnut later taken to England by other expores becoming the English Walnut.  That is very plausible but completely unreasonable in the current academic echo chambers.  We can transplant such plants today, but anciently that did not happen.  Corn, potatoes, sugarcane is all fiction.  The date palm, the jaguar, and black tribes in America before "Amistad" all need to be reconsidered.  The true knowledge of Ancient America will become the tipping point that causes the modern house of cards to collapse.  The old FAKE NEWS will melt away and the new discoveries will accelerate innovation and human collaboration.  

And when people decide that economies can be abundant and that Nephi demonstrated how a society could feed and house and protect everyone first and foremost.  Then and only then can we work together and in a short amount of time restructure society.  The actions are obvious if you can see the picture.   Study what Nephi did and execute it in our world.  Feed/House/Protect everyone, create a land of milk and honey where one can procure wine without money.  Isaiah is amazing!  As was, and is, the legend that is Nephi.

The Old-Tupi language will unlock much of these connections.  The links to Arawak and Alogonquin to Tupi-Guarani have been proposed.  The diffusion of the Tupi-Guarani language and its split has had many research articles attempting to explain the separation; none of the models attempt to consider the importance of river travel and the intentional separation executed by Nephi.  The language was the lingua franca to trade among all tribes in all America.  Spaniards was able to learn the basics of the language in a few months and supplant the lingua franca with Spanish within 200 years.  The mixing of local languages with multiple descriptors (given name: Manti and functional maritime name: Xcaret -- Xcaret is a loan word into Mayan from the lingua franca with the same meaning interpreted Mayan meaning as the people of Nephi had for Manti) if properly modeled will advance our understanding of Ancient America and the legend of Nephi.

IMAGES:  https://www.google.com/search?q=tupi+migration+language
SCHOLAR:
https://royalsocietypublishing.org/doi/pdf/10.1098/rsif.2021.0499
https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/pdf/10.1002/ajpa.24876
https://journals.plos.org/plosone/article?id=10.1371/journal.pone.0232367
https://www.researchgate.net/profile/Francisco-Noelli/publication/226068382_The_Tupi_Expansion/links/587391e008ae329d621cf6db/The-Tupi-Expansion.pdf
https://monografias.ufma.br/jspui/bitstream/123456789/2193/1/KARENCONCEI%C3%87%C3%83O.pdf
https://journals.plos.org/plosone/article?id=10.1371/journal.pone.0035025

In a world, [serious narrator], where A-morron commissioned Mormon to ... [shift to absurd whining by Mormon].

Mormon: our language evolved.  I can't read Egyptian.  But I translated the record of Lehi (or was it only large plates).  Nephi was taught Egyptian by his mother.  Lehi was an elite who likely was a polyglot, but Lehi's (Laman's) birth language was Ancient Hebrew (Proto).

Red Frog as Bastimiento.  Tortuguero (pleasant beach conversation), water taxi delay staying in Puero Limon.  Boquete (hotsprings and cold water and beauty).
